---
title: Burton-cum-Walden Parish Council Minutes for Tuesday, 7 January 2025
author: Sue Ryding
chairman: Jane Ritchie
description: Burton-cum-Walden Parish Council Minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on Tuesday, 7 January 2025
dated: '2025-01-07'
---

A Parish Council meeting was held in the Village Hall, West Burton, on Tuesday, 7 January 2025

Present: Miss Jane Ritchie, Mr Andrew Landau, Mr David Dent, Mrs Sally Sahin and Mrs Victoria Whitehead, Councillors, Mrs Susan Ryding, clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk and Mr Richard Nolan, Assistant clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk

**1\. Apologies**

There were no apologies, all the members being present.

**2\. Declarations of interest**

There were no declarations of interest.

**3\. Minutes**

The minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on 3 December 2024, having been circulated to all Members, were confirmed as a true copy, and duly signed by the Chairman.

**4\. clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk's Report**

The clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk reported on the following matters:

- \- Solar street-lights
- \- Receipt of a donation from May Fair Funds
- \- Land near Flanders Hall
- \- Council finances

RESOLVED: That the clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk's Report be received and noted.

**5\. Request for support of tree planting**

The Chairman reported on the plans by Mr Stephen Kemp, owner of Greystones, for tree planting behind Croft, and that she had walked the site with the owner.

RESOLVED: That the Parish Council support these plans for tree planting in the interests of creating more and diverse woodland within the Parish.

**6\. Bank Reconciliation Statement**

The clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk presented a Bank Reconciliation Statement of the Parish Council's account, drawn up to 31 December 2024. Councillors Landau and Whitehead, being the two councillors responsible for scrutinising all aspects of the Council's finances in accordance with the Council's Internal Control and Internal Audit Policy and Procedure, confirmed that they were content with the Statement.

RESOLVED: That the Statement be accepted and confirmed.

**7\. Insurance Cover**

The clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk reported that the quotation for renewing the Council's insurance cover for a further year with Zurich Municipal was £547.51. The clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk noted that the quotation was slightly more than last year, but that the proposed insurance would now also cover the Council's emergency generator.

RESOLVED: That the quotation be accepted, and that the clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk should renew the insurance as provided in the quotation.

**8\. Internal Control and Internal Audit Policy and Procedure**

The Council considered its Internal Control and Internal Audit Policy and Procedure.

RESOLVED: That the Policy be confirmed and adopted for a further year.

**9\. Planning applications**

The Council considered the following planning applications for the erection of storage buildings and installation of 400 litre over-ground effluent tanks at two locations at Cote Bridge Riverside Park, Walden:

Planning Application R/54/135F at north-west of Cote Bridge
Planning Application R/54/135G at east of Cote Bridge.

RESOLVED: That the clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk should write to Yorkshire Dales National Park (the planning authority) to seek clarification of certain matters and repeat the Council's views on the development at Cote Bridge of which these applications appear to form part.

**10\. Chairs and Tables on the Village Green**

The Council considered a request from the owners of the West Burton shop for tables and chairs to be placed on the Village Green.

RESOLVED: That such permission should not be granted, and that when conveying this decision on behalf of the Council the clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk should indicate that this is in accordance with established practice in relation to the Green, and that private commercial use of the Green is not allowed.

**11\. Funding for GP Practices**

The Council considered a draft letter to the Integrated Care Board on funding for General Practices.

RESOLVED: That the Chairman should check current developments as regards the funding of GP practices and, subject to any amendments of the draft made necessary by that, the clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk should write to the Integrated Care Board on behalf of the Council

**12\. Parish Newsletter**

The Council considered further items for the January Newsletter, and these were noted by the clerk@burtoncumwalden-pc.gov.uk.

**13\. Invoices**

Cheques in payment of the following donations were signed:

- \- Yorkshire Air Ambulance - £25
- \- Great North Air Ambulance - £25.

**14\. Notice of meetings and reports of meeting attended**

Councillors noted the dates of future meetings and reports of meetings attended. In particular, the Council noted a meeting of the Upper Dales Health Watch on 28 January 2025.

**15\. Items for the next agenda**

RESOLVED: That in addition to any matters mentioned above, the following item should be brought forward:

- Maintenance and preservation of the triangle of Parish land by The Grange, at the junction of Front and Back Nooks.

There being no further business, the meeting closed at 9.30pm.

Date of the next meeting, **Tuesday, 4 February 2025 at 8.00 pm** in the Village Hall.
