---
title: BURTON-CUM-WALDEN PARISH COUNCIL MINUTES 9th JANUARY 2024
author: Sue Ryding
chairman: Jane Ritchie
description: BURTON-CUM-WALDEN PARISH COUNCIL MINUTES OF THE PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, 9 JANUARY 2024
dated: '2024-01-09'
---



> **BURTON-CUM-WALDEN PARISH COUNCIL MINUTES OF THE PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, 9 JANUARY 2024**

A Parish Council meeting was held in the Village Hall, West Burton on
Tuesday, 9 January 2024

Present: Miss Jane Ritchie, Mr Andrew Landau, Mrs Sally Sahin, Mr David
Dent and Mrs Victoria Whitehead, Councillors, and Mrs Susan Ryding,
Clerk

**1. Apologies**

There were no apologies, all the Members being present.

**2. Declarations of interest**

There were no declarations of interest

**3. Minutes**

The minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on 5 December 2023,
having been circulated to all Members, were confirmed as a true copy,
and duly signed by the Chairman.

**4. Clerk's Report**

- The Clerk reported on the following matters:
- Arrangements for Christmas
- Council finances

**5. Electric cables across the Green**

Councillors considered a report from the Clerk on a telephone
conversation she had had with the owners of Hazely Garth, and on an
email she had received

RESOLVED:

> That the Clerk should reply to the email and ask the owners if they
> could meet with members of the Council the next time they came to the
> village
>
> That the Council should seek further legal advice from YLCA
>
> That, in the meantime, the owners should be made aware of the their
> liability should any accident occur as a result of the cable across
> the Green and should insure that they are covered against this
> eventuality

**6. Review of the Risk Assessment and renewal of the Council's
insurance**

The Council considered the Risk Assessment and the quote for the
Council's insurance RESOLVED: That, with some amendment, the Risk
Assessment is approved, and that a cheque for £469.58 for the Council's
insurance premium should be signed and forwarded to Zurich Municipal

**7. Review of Internal Audit procedure and appointment of an Internal
Auditor**

Councillors considered the Internal Audit procedure and the appointment
of an Internal Auditor of the Council's finances

RESOLVED: That, with some amendment, the Internal Audit is approved, and
that Mrs Jo Reynolds should be asked if she would undertake the Internal
Audit again this year

**8. Bank reconciliation statement**

Councillors considered a bank reconciliation statement and discussed the
internal control arrangements.

RESOLVED: That the bank reconciliation is accepted and approved

> 18

**9. Maintenance of Aysgarth Cemetery**

The Council considered a report from the Council's representatives on
the Cemetery Committee, Councillors Sally Sahin and Victoria Whitehead,
on the arrangements for the upkeep of Aysgarth Cemetery.

RESOLVED: That the Council should request an extra-ordinary meeting of
the Committee to consider the problem and ways it could be improved, and
that this matter should be brought forward to the next Council meeting

**10. Biodiversity Policy**

The Clerk tabled a draft Biodiversity Policy, a copy of which had been
circulated to Councillors before the meeting.

RESOLVED: That the Biodiversity Policy is accepted and adopted

**11. Highways matters**

Councillors considered a response from the Highways Department to an
email from the Council regarding concerns around the frequency with
which Class C roads in the Parish were gritted during inclement weather.
The Chairman confirmed that this matter and others could be raised at a
meeting with Area 1 of Highways Department on 30 January, which would be
attended by the Chairman and the Clerk. Councillor David Dent also
reported that a drain outside his property appeared not to have any
outlet, and that this caused extensive flooding in this area.

RESOLVED: That the Chairman should raise this matter and also blocked
drains and street lights not working at the meeting on 30 January

**12. Removal of ivy on trees**

The Clerk reported that she had received a quote from Wensleydale Tree &
Horticultural Services Ltd for £600 plus VAT for the removal of ivy on
the trees between the Beck and the B6160. RESOLVED: That the quote is
accepted and the Clerk should arrange for the work to be carried out

**13. Natural England survey**

The Clerk reported that Natural England had asked if it could carry out
a survey of biodiversity on land in the Parish which it assumed belonged
to the Council. However, the Clerk had established that the land was not
owned by the Council, and had notified Natural England accordingly.
RESOLVED: That Councillors noted the land in question and agreed that it
was not owned by the Council

**14. Invoices**

> Cheques for the following invoices were signed Website domain
> renewal - £34.99
>
> West Burton Village Hall rental - £24.00

**15. Notice of meetings and reports of meeting attended**

Councillors noted the dates of future meetings and reports of meetings
attended.

**16. Items for the next agenda**

RESOLVED: That in addition to any matters mentioned above, the following
item should be brought forward to the next agenda.

> Renewal of the play area surface
>
> The appointment of an assistant parish caretaker
>
> 19

There being no further business, the meeting closed at 9.10 pm

Date of the next meeting, **Tuesday, 6 February 2024 at 8.00 pm** in the
Village Hall.

> Chairman: Jane O Ritchie
>
> Date: 13 February 2024
>
> 20
