<center>

# MINUTES OF THE PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON
## TUESDAY, 4 NOVEMBER 2025
</center>
A Parish Council meeting was held in the Village Hall, West Burton, on Tuesday, 4 November
2025.

**Present**: Miss Jane Ritchie, Mr Andrew Landau, Mrs Sally Sahin, Mr David Dent and Mrs Victoria Whitehead, Councillors, and Mr Richard Nolan, Clerk

+ **1. Apologies**
	There were no apologies, all the members being present.
+ **2. Declarations of interest**
Councillor Dent declared an interest in Item 8 below (land belonging to family members). He took no part in the discussion or determination of Item 8.
+ **3. Minutes**
The minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on Tuesday 7 October 2025, having been circulated to all Members, were confirmed as a true copy, and duly signed by the Chairman.
+ **4. Clerk’s Report**
The Clerk reported on the following matters:
	- Bonfire Night
	- Christmas Lights
	- Street Lights
	- Bin by the Waterfall
	- Parish clerk’s salary
	- Council Finances.
	
In the light of communications from Aysgarth Cemetery Committee (discussed under Council Finances), the Council
	RESOLVED: That, in due course, the Budget prepared for 2026/27 should include £500 set aside for contribution, if necessary, to the Committee.

+ **5. Report from the Chairman about the school buildings of West Burton School**
The Chairman reported that she and the Clerk had attended a meeting with Nicola Dinsdale of YDNPA Planning Team to explore what might be the planning issues if the School were to close and its buildings be put to other use. She also reported that she had contacted three architects with a view to instructing one (or more) of them to advise on how the school building might be put to other use should the school close. The Chairman noted that she and the Clerk had another Teams meeting with North Yorkshire Council about the school buildings scheduled for 27 November 2025. She undertook to report any further developments on this matter in due course.

+ **6. Precept**
The Council discussed further setting the Precept for 2026/27. It noted that at its previous meeting, it had provisionally agreed a figure of £7,700.00. However, in the light of the current rate of inflation, concerns about the parish mower, and the communications from Aysgarth Cemetery Committee (see Item 4 above), the Council
		RESOLVED: To set the Precept for 2026/27 at **£7,800.00** , and to instruct the Clerk to
communicate this decision to North Yorkshire Council as billing authority.

+ **7. Planning Applications**
The Council considered and responded to the planning applications listed below:
	1) R/54/42G - Householder planning permission for erection of first floor extension to rear of property at Forelands, Walden, West Burton, Leyburn, DL8 4LD

		RESOLVED: That the Council had no objection to the application.

	2) R/54/26A - Householder planning permission for erection of single storey extensions to
south-east, north-west and north-east elevations, raising rear wall and adding new roof to rear,
conversion of outbuilding to hobby room, alterations to fenestration, conversion of attached barn
to living accommodation and to replace existing render at Hestholme Farm, West Burton,
Leyburn, DL8 4UN

		RESOLVED: That the Council has concerns about this application, namely (i) the scale and nature of the development appear to be inappropriate, and out of keeping with the character of a Dales farmhouse; and (ii) there appears to be the possibility of adverse light pollution from the
development.

	3) R/54/26B - Full planning permission for demolition of farm building and adjoining lean-to and erection of new steel framed building to provide short-term holiday accommodation (with integrated parking), associated decking, and fencing at Hestholme Farm, West Burton, Leyburn, DL8 4UN

		RESOLVED: That the Council has concerns about this application, namely (i) the scale and nature of the development appear to be inappropriate, and out of keeping with the character of a Dales farmhouse and its surroundings; (ii) permission has already been given for a significant amount of new visitor accommodation with a mile of this location, and it is questionable that still more is needed given the increased pressure such accommodation puts on local services and
amenities.

		FURTHER RESOLVED: That the Clerk be instructed to communicate these views to YDNPA Planning Team.

+ **8. Notice (Form B122) from HM Land Registry**
The Council (Councillor Dent not participating – see Item 2 above) considered a form B122 from HM Land Registry in respect of an application for first registration of land in Walden under title number NYK518616.

	RESOLVED: to consent to the application and instruct the Clerk to communicate that consent to HM Land Registry.

+ **9. Policy for Recording of Meetings**
The Council considered its policy, adopted first in 2014, for the recording of meetings.
	
	RESOLVED: to confirm the policy and reconsider it in November 2026.
	
+ **10. Items of Interest or Concern from the NYC Parish Update, the YLCA White Rose Bulletin and the YLCA weekly News and Notifications**
Councillors did not raise any items of interest of concern arising since the last meeting of the Council in any of (i) the NYC Parish Update, (ii) the YLCA White Rose Bulletin and (iii) the YLCA weekly news and notifications.

+ **11. Invoices**
The were no invoices for payment.

+ **12. Notice of meetings and reports of meeting attended**
Councillors noted the dates of future meetings and reports of meetings attended.

+ **13. Items for the next agenda**

	RESOLVED: That in addition to any matters mentioned above, the following items should be brought forward:
	- Items for the January 2026 Parish Newsletter
	- Land at Flanders Hall
	
There being no further business, the meeting closed at 9.10 pm

Date of the next meeting: **Tuesday, 2 December 2025 at 8.00 pm** in the Village Hall.

### Chairman : Jane O Ritchie

```
Date: 2 December 2025
```

